# AOB Injection

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Test Injection Point](#test-injection-point)
- [Check Unique AOB](#check-unique-aob)
- [Avoid Calls and Jumps](#avoid-calls-and-jumps)
- [Using Wildcards](#using-wildcards)
- [Testing AOB Script](#testing-aob-script)

## Summary
Use AOB injection to find "array of bytes" in memory and perform injection at that memory location once found. AOB injection is typically a better option than pointer scans, as good AOBs are more resistant to game updates.

## Test Injection Point
Test the injection point is correct by `nop` out the opcode(s) or write a temporary injection script. Sometimes it might look like it is working; however, only display values are altered rather than actual internal values.

## Check Unique AOB
The AOB generated by Cheat Engine is not always unique. Check the AOB uniqueness before putting it in the script. This can be done by searching value type as `Array of bytes`. If there is more than one result, add more bytes to the AOB. If there are no results, enable `Writable`, `Executable` and `CopyOnWrite` (square in checkbox) and re-scan.

## Avoid Calls and Jumps
Don't inject near `call` or `jmp` (or any variant of jump). Sometimes the value in these opcodes will change due to a game update, or the jump address is dynamically calculated. For example:
```
mov [rbx+C],rdx
mov [rbx+04],rcx        // <-- injection point
call Game.exe+5F3D
```

If the unique AOB contains only the `mov` opcode (`48 89 4B 04`), there won't be any problem. However, if the AOB contains some bytes for `call`, this is not a good injection point. In that case, shift the injection point up until the bytes for `call` is not included in the AOB:
```
mov [rbx+C],rdx        // <-- injection point
mov [rbx+04],rcx
call Game.exe+5F3D
```

In the script reference the correct opcode by counting the offset:
```
// 48 89 8B 00 00 00 00     mov [rbx+C],rcx
// 48 89 4b 04              mov [rbx+04],rcx

aobscan(script, Game.exe, 48 89 8B 00 00 00 00 48 89 4b 04)
// mov [rbx+04],rcx = script + 7
```

## Using Wildcards
Sometimes the AOB will change after a game restart. This mostly happens with mono games, where different opcodes are generated for every run of the game. It is best to avoid injecting in locations with volatile bytes. Cheat Engine allows using a wildcard (`??` or `**`) to specify "any byte" in that byte location:
```
aobscan(script, Game.exe, 48 89 8B 00 ?? ?? ?? 48 89 4b 04)
```

One issue with using wildcards is the actual bytes in `??` are not saved by Cheat Engine. When restoring original bytes (after disabling cheat), the bytes in `??` are lost and cannot be restored. A solution is to backup the `??` bytes (using [`readMem`](https://wiki.cheatengine.org/index.php?title=Auto_Assembler:readMem)) and write the bytes back when restoring.

## Testing AOB Script
There are a few ways to test the AOB:
- Progress further in the game, see if the cheat is still viable
- Restart the game, sometimes some bytes will change after a restart
- The cheat might also work in multiplayer if the game is P2P, but check if there are any ban system first
